social media constantly changes but this
year it's going to be different you're
going to be prepared
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to break down social media
trends for 2022
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel
now
one thing i want you to do is tell me
the biggest trend that you think is
going to happen this year let me know
leave a comment because i'm going to
tell you the trends i see and then we
can compare
it's crazy how social media changes
every year i've seen platforms that get
tons of engagement lose relevancy in a
short period of time like snapchat and
i've also seen platforms like tick tock
just explode in just a couple of years
as a marketer it's hard to keep up with
these all these changing algorithms and
all these changing social networks that
are even coming out like clubhouse
but there's some trends that you can end
up seeing developing quietly that will
become the new norm
today i'm going to talk about some of
these trends for 2022 so that you can up
your game and be prepared for them in
the coming months so let's dive into the
trends for 2022.
videos are going to even get shorter
have you seen the thing called shorts
people don't create shorts because they
want to they're creating shorts because
these platforms know that people love
watching short 30 second or one minute
videos when you look at how successful
tick-tock videos have been instagram has
come up with their own version of that
it's called reels hubspot found that 64
of markers plan to leverage more short
form videos in 2022.
one of the reasons for that is short
form videos are brief engaging
digestible and can be repurposed in many
different social media channels like
instagram tech talk facebook and even
linkedin depending on your content the
next trend is marketers and companies
will need to make their social
advertising more sophisticated think
about how many businesses are starting
on social media every year just running
ads
just so you have idea a research
conducted by hootsuite shows that more
than half 51.4 of the 18 000 markers
they surveyed are planning to increase
their social spend in 2022 that means
that in order to stand out you'll have
to get creative and differentiate your
brand from the rest of the competition
think of it this way if you're
interrupting people on social media
you're going to have to give them a good
reason to listen to your message it's
just like getting into party and selling
your product well everyone else just
there wants to have fun and talk and
engage with each other you're trying to
solve that's hard with social ads you'll
need to get super creative if you want
to stand out in 2022
the next trend companies will stop
improvising with their social media
strategy and start hiring more
specialists a lot of companies have
underplayed the role that social media
can play in revenue generation most of
them typically run their social media by
a committee without a specific direction
or strategy or maybe it's not even
committed it's one or two people or even
worse they get some generalists to run
their social media marketing forum the
problem with that is that people have
higher expectations today when it comes
to social media profiles from brands
that they're engaging with they want to
have meaningful interactions with these
brands they want to be responsive fast
and efficiently and they almost always
want to be able to call your company by
phone or at least message someone by
chat or text message even
another trend is platform diversity and
omni channel it's become harder and
harder to rely just on one social
platform i should just be on facebook i
should just be on youtube and twitter
and then i had to add in linkedin and
tick tock
heck someone the other day was like neil
we love your tick tock i was like i got
a tick tock
and this actually happened a while ago
not really the other day but when it
happened my team was like oh yeah we
were able to get your handle and we just
started uploading videos to get us
started and we're going to tell you and
surprise you for christmas i was like oh
cool thanks and then i started getting
in there and re-engaging and just trying
to boost it up
but what we've seen is engagement is at
an all-time low yes some networks like
tick tock and linkedin give you great
engagement but over time they all die
down just like the rest so you got to
have an omni channel approach so you can
get the best out of all the channels out
there a survey conducted by hubspot
discovered that 64 of marketers
currently are leveraging three to five
different social media platforms i'm
even leveraging more than that so it's a
trend that you can expect to continue
over the coming years since you won't be
able to get all the amazing results that
you used to get by just focusing on one
channel
social commerce is also a huge trend
facebook now meta conducted research
that revealed that 81 of people say that
instagram helps them research products
or services that's just one social
network too imagine what happens with
all the networks social networks are now
the second most important channel for
online brand research after searching
according to hootsuite and we're social
digital 2021 report
but now besides being able to research
social media users are actually able to
buy directly from social media profiles
and this trend is something that you can
expect more and more in 22 and beyond
here's another cool thing did you know
home shopping network in qvc remember
those days back you know years and years
ago you would watch the channels
ring in the phone and buy the product at
least my mom did
with those channels and that concept of
selling facebook now has that on that
platform you can go live and start
selling right then and there tell people
how you're running out of inventory
assuming that's true and start making
sales right then and there that's the
power of social media and you're going
to see more commerce happening on these
social platforms versus people just
going to your website if you need help
with your social media marketing check
out my ad agency np digital if you enjoy
the video like it share it comment below
thank you for watching